=head1 NAME

  GnuCash::MySQL - A module to access GnuCash MySQL database

=head1 VERSION

  version 0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use GnuCash::MySQL;

  # create the book
  
  I need to write some stuff here

=head1 DESCRIPTION

GnuCash::SQLite provides an API to read account balances and write
transactions against a GnuCash set of accounts (only MySQL backend
supported).

When using the module, always provide account names in full e.g. "Assets:Cash"
rather than just "Cash". This lets the module distinguish between accounts
with the same name but different parents e.g. Assets:Misc and
Expenses:Misc

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructor

  $book = GnuCash::SQLite->new(db => 'my_account.gnucash');

I have not yet writen the constructor.

Returns a new C<GnuCash::SQLite> object that accesses a GnuCash with and
SQLite backend. The module assumes you have already created a GnuCash file
with an SQLite backend and that is the file that should be passed as the
parameter.

If no file parameter is passed, or if the file is missing, the program will
terminate.

=head2 account_balance

  $book->account_balance('Assets:Cash');   # always provide account names in full
  $book->account_balance('Assets');        # includes child accounts e.g. Assets:Cash

Given an account name, return the balance in the account. Account names must
be provided in full to distinguish between accounts with the same name but
different parents e.g. Assets:Alice:Cash and Assets:Bob:Cash

If a parent account name is provided, the total balance, which includes all
children accounts, will be returned.

=head2 add_transaction

  $deposit = {
      date         => '20140102',
      description  => 'Deposit monthly savings',
      from_account => 'Assets:Cash',
      to_account   => 'Assets:aBank',
      amount       => 2540.15,
      number       => ''
  };
  $book->add_transaction($deposit);

A transaction is defined to have the fields as listed in the example above.
All fields are mandatory and hopefully self-explanatory. Constraints on some
of the fields are listed below:

    date         Date of the transaction. Formatted as YYYYMMDD.
    from_account Full account name required.
    to_account   Full account name required.


=head1 CAVEATS/LIMITATIONS

Some things to be aware of:

    1. You should have created a GnuCash file with an MySQL backend already
    2. Module accesses the GnuCash MySQL db directly; i.e. use at your own risk.
    
    ### At this point nothing had been tested.

This module works with GnuCash v2.6.5 on Linux.

=head1 SEE ALSO

GnuCash wiki pages includes a section on C API and a section on Python
bindings which may be of interest.

    C API          : http://wiki.gnucash.org/wiki/C_API
    Python bindings: http://wiki.gnucash.org/wiki/Python_Bindings

This module was inspired by Hoe Kit CHEW's work.
https://github.com/hoekit/GnuCash-SQLite

This module does not rely on the C API (maybe it should). Instead it relies on
some reverse engineering work to understand the changes a transaction makes
to the sqlite database. See
http://wideopenstudy.blogspot.com/search/label/GnuCash for details.

=head1 SUPPORT

=head2 Bugs / Feature Requests

Please report any bugs or feature requests through the issue tracker at
L<https://github.com/theochino/GnuCash-MySQL/issues>. You will be notified
automatically of any progress on your issue.

=head2 Source Code

This is open source software. The code repository is available for public
review and contribution under the terms of the license.

    <https://github.com/hoekit/GnuCash-MySQL>

    git clone git@github.com:theochino/GnuCash-MySQL.git

=head1 AUTHOR

Theo CHINO, E<lt>GitPerlModuleGNUCash at theochino.comE<gt>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2015 by Theo Chino

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

